---
layout: post
title: "fasting"
date: 2017-01-28 22:25
comments: true
categories:
---

I'm finishing my second fasting and I thought it's good to write a blog about my experiences with fasting to record. However, there is also one more reason why I want to write about fasting: it seems to me that fasting is less popular in Western society than Asian society. Almost all people with Western background looked very puzzled and thought like I'm crazy or idiot when I told them that I've gone fast for four days. Yes, there are many articles and pages on the Internet about fasting if you google, but I felt the idea of fasting is not very popular.

In contrast, fasting seems more popular idea in Asia and I think it's probably because there is much stronger influence of Buddism in Asian countries than in Western countries. There are some temples in Japan where you can stay and fast for a week or two weeks. I've also seen in TV that people are talking about fasting and how good it is many times. Althought fasting is not something that everybody exercises even in Japan, at least people are more exposed to the idea of fasting than in Western countires.

## My fasting experiences and normal diet

I should first say that this is only the second time of doing fasting and gone fast only for four days at maximum, so I don't know what happens to my body if I keep going. Also, I'm a person who eats less than average male: I normally skip lunch and eat once or twice in a day. I also eat not much carbs. I think it's not inaccurate to say that I'm not a big fan of eating. I certainly appreciate easting good foods, but it's kind ok if I don't eat. This way of diet probably made it easy for starting fasting, so if you are a person who loves eating, then starting fasting is a littler harder and your experiences may differ from what I experienced, so please just keep in mind that when reading the followings.

### Day 1

The first day of fasting is the most toughest time for me, especially at night. I can't stop thinking of grossy and fatty food such as Ramen or Hamburger. I also really want to drink more than usual but this is probably because of my drinking habit that I have at every night. In body functionality wise, I feel a bit dull and I would say I can keep 70~80% level of my body functionality.
It's not that terrible but I don't feel very confromable with my body.

I also felt that my thinking ability and creativity goes down during the first day. I would say I can keep 60 ~ 70% of normal level. I can still read books, write blogs, and learn new things but it requires a bit more focus than usual.

### Day 2

I still can't stop thinking about food in the second day, but this time the thoughts about sweet foods such as chocolate or ice cream is hunting me instead of Ramen or Hamburger. I assume this is because of the decrease in the blood sugar level.

I still feel a bit dull like the first day. It seems like my cognitive level goes down very easily if you don't focus than normal times. In the first time I've done fasting I gave a small damage to my car when I tried to park the car in a way that I normally don't do. My wife told me that I was out of it when I parking my car.

However, I can do tasks that requires cognitive power as well as normal times or even with better performance if I give it attention. I could have cooked very well and read books with more focus than usual. I could study some Math theories (I'm not good at Math in general) and write blog articles. It just needs some effort and good motivations to carry these tasks that require cognitive power.

### Day 3

The third day is the same as the second day, so I skip mentinoing.

### Day 4

The forth day is kind of surprising day. I almost forget that I haven't easten for the last three days. I don't feel dull anymore and my brains works almost as usual.

I don't have many things to say in the forth day because I felt it's so usual. At this time, I got bored and quit fasting, so I don't know what's going to happen after that.

### Results that match popular beleive

Here are more concrete things that happen to my body during and after fasting.

#### Weight loss

I lost 3 kilograms in my weight but I think this is a obvious result. I haven't rebounded my weight neither, but this is probably because of my normal diet.

#### Skin regeneration

My face skin got very good. It was dry and a bit damaged before doing fasting but I feel significant improvmenet in my skin after fasting. I assume this is because the regeneration power of your body is sharpened during fasting as well explained in the internet. Although this is not direct beniefit for me (why would I care the condition of my facial skin?) I think this beniefit is suffice to try fasting if you have skin problems.

#### Increase in the sense of taste and smell

There is a dramatic increase here. I could smell food that my wife was cooking in the downstairs much more strongly than normal time. It was an ordinary dishes but the smell was terrific.

I also felt taste of foods more strongly than before. I drunk vegitable juice during fasting and I felt it has never more tasty than before. Of course, you feel every food that you eat after fasting is more tasty than before.

I think one good thing about doing fasting is that you think about your diet more seriously than before. This is not just because every food you eat after fasting is better but also because your large part of your attention is being paid for thinking about food during fasting. In this way, you can *review* your diet.

### Results that do not match popular belief

#### Amazing first few meals

I should say that my experiences with the first few meals after fasting is not as dramatic as other people say. I've read many articles that talk about how amazing the first bite after fasting would be. In my case, it was a good experience but it's definilitely not a life-changing thing. How you feel about the first few means depends on large factors such as your ordinaly diet and the length of fasting, but I personally feel they are exaggerated to make you believe fasting is a good thing to do.

#### Saving time

This is one of the biggest finding that I've had during fasting. You will be surprised how much time you spend for eating and drinking in normal time. You can save time dramatically by cutting them. I found more time available during a fasting day and it took while where the spare time comes from. I have more time available because I'm not spending time for eating and drinking. I could use the spare time to play with my baby and reading books and I think that was very useful.

#### Fecal impaction

Many articles that I've read about fasting talk about fecal impaction would happen during fasting. However, this never happens to me. It may be because it needs longer period of fasting to make this happen but at least it didn't happen with the four days of fasting.

#### Detoxing

This is another thing that many articles that I've read are bringing up as a benefit of fasting, but I don't feel this happend to me. More accurately, I don't have a way to measure if detoxing is happening or not, so I don't know if that's true or not. But as much as I can sense in my body, I don't feel any

#### Creativity increase

In the end, I think I could do more creative stuff than usual during fasting. What I mean by creative stuff is things such as learning new ideas, writing computer programs, and cooking new food, etc.

Although your cognitive level tends to decrease, I'm more motivated during fasting and can focus on doing creative stuff by making efforts delibrately. I think this is partly because I have a strong willingness of making fasting successful and not the direct impact of fasting.
